Comparison of GPU and CPU hash rates

| Algorithm | GPU           | CPU        |
| --------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| MD5       | 68,185.1 MH/s | 450.8 MH/s |
| SHA1      | 21,528.2 MH/s | 298.3 MH/s |
| SHA256    | 9,276.3 MH/s  | 134.2 MH/s |
Calculating the cracking time for password length of 5

CPU:
`python3 -c "print(916132832 / 134200000)"` 
ANS:
`6.826623189269746`

GPU:
`python3 -c "print(916132832 / 9276300000)"`
ANS:
`0.09876058687192092`

Calculating the cracking time for password length of 8 and 10 on a GPU for SHA-256

```
kali@kali:~$ python3 -c "print(62**8)"
218340105584896

kali@kali:~$ python3 -c "print(218340105584896 / 9276300000)"
23537.41314801117

kali@kali:~$ python3 -c "print(62**10)"
839299365868340224

kali@kali:~$ python3 -c "print(839299365868340224 / 9276300000)"
90477816.14095493
```

LONG ARSE TIME.

GPU will take 6.5 hours for 8 character pass and 2.8 years for ten character pass

### Mutating Wordlists

Rule-Based Attack to match a password policy with:
- Upper case letter
- Special character
- Number

Checking if rockyou.txt meets these reqs.

 Displaying the first 10 passwords of rockyou.txt (they don't meet pass pol)

`head /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt`

```
123456
12345
123456789
password
iloveyou
princess
1234567
rockyou
12345678
abc123
```

Creating new file called demo.txt and removing all passwords from above that begin with a 1 with #sed

`head /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt > demo.txt`

`sed -i '/^1/d' demo.txt`

Result:

```
password
iloveyou
princess
rockyou
abc123
```

#hashcatwiki has example rule functions 
https://hashcat.net/wiki/doku.php?id=rule_based_attack

#### Adding the Number Req.

Rule function to add a "1" to all passwords

`echo \$1 > demo.rule`

Using #hashcat to append the 1 to the end of each password. 

`hashcat -r demo.rule --stdout demo.txt`

Result:
```
password1
iloveyou1
princess1
rockyou1
abc1231
```

#### Adding the Upper Case Letter Req.

Using two rule files. 

Rule file  `demo1.rule` looks like 

````
$1 c
````

This applies an uppercase letter to each password and appends a one.

`hashcat -r demo1.rule --stdout demo.txt`

Result:

```
Password1
Iloveyou1
Princess1
Rockyou1
Abc1231
```

Rule file  `demo2.rule` looks like 

```
$1
c
```

This appends a 1 to each word and adds an uppercase letter (results in double  the words)

`hashcat -r demo2.rule --stdout demo.txt`

Result:

```
password1
Password
iloveyou1
Iloveyou
princess1
Princess
```

#### Adding the Special Character Req. 

Going with `!`

We want the `!` applied to each password, so need to add `$!` on the same line.

````
$1 c $!
````

`hashcat -r demo1.rule --stdout demo.txt`

```
Password1!
Iloveyou1!
Princess1!
Rockyou1!
Abc1231!
```

This format for demo2.rule

```
$! $1 c
```

Results in the `!` before the `1`

`hashcat -r demo2.rule --stdout demo.txt`

Result:

```
Password!1
Iloveyou!1
Princess!1
Rockyou!1
Abc123!1
```

Rule functions are applied left to right. 

#### Cracking MD5 Hash with Custom Rule-Based Attack

Crackme.txt:

`f621b6c9eab51a3e2f4e167fee4c6860`

demo3.rule:

```
$1 c $!
$2 c $!
$1 $2 $3 c $!
```

#hashcat command

`hashcat -m 0 crackme.txt /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt -r demo3.rule --force`

Cracked hash:

````
f621b6c9eab51a3e2f4e167fee4c6860:Computer123!            
````

#hashcat has rules pre-made in `/usr/share/hashcat/rules`

##### LABS

1. Create a rule to add "1@3$5" to each password of the **rockyou.txt** wordlist and crack the hash `056df33e47082c77148dba529212d50`

	Rules file: `$1 $@ $3 $$ $5`
	 Command: `hashcat -m 0 hash.txt /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt -r custom.rule --force`

2. Create a rule which makes all letters upper case and duplicates the passwords contained in **rockyou.txt** and crack the hash `19adc0e8921336d08502c039dc297ff8`

	 Rules file: `u d`
	 Command: `hashcat -m 0 second.hash /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt -r second.rule --force`
#### Cracking Methodology 

1. Extract hashes
2. Format hashes
3. Calculate the cracking time
4. Prepare wordlist
5. Attack the hash

Identify hash type with 

[[hash-identifier]] or [[hashid]]

Cracking time is calculated by dividing the key-space with the hash rate. 

#### Password Manager

Examples:  [_1Password_](https://1password.com/) and [_KeePass_](https://keepass.info/)

Scenario: 
We have initial access on a workstation running the KeePass password manager.

We will extract the password manager database, transform the file to be compatible with Hashcat and crack the database password. 

The KeePass database is a `.kdbx file`

1. Search for all databases (`.kdbx`) files on the system

`Get-ChildItem -Path C:\ -Include *.kdbx -File -Recurse -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue`

Found one `Database.kdbx` file and transferred it to Kali. 

2. Format the hash for cracking

Hash formatters include:  [_ssh2john_](https://github.com/openwall/john/blob/bleeding-jumbo/run/ssh2john.py) and _[keepass2john_](https://github.com/openwall/john/blob/bleeding-jumbo/src/keepass2john.c)

Using #keepass2john to format and save output as `keepass.hash`

`keepass2john Database.kdbx > keepass.hash`

Result:

```
Database:$keepass$*2*60*0*d74e29a727e9338717d27a7d457ba3486d20dec73a9db1a7fbc7a068c9aec6bd*04b0bfd787898d8dcd4d463ee768e55337ff001ddfac98c961219d942fb0cfba*5273cc73b9584fbd843d1ee309d2ba47*1dcad0a3e50f684510c5ab14e1eecbb63671acae14a77eff9aa319b63d71ddb9*17c3ebc9c4c3535689cb9cb501284203b7c66b0ae2fbf0c2763ee920277496c1
```

Need to remove the `Database` string for hashcat.

Finding the mode of KeePass in Hashcat

`hashcat --help | grep -i "KeePass"`

Result:

```
13400 | KeePass 1 (AES/Twofish) and KeePass 2 (AES)         | Password Manager
```

Mode: 13400

3. Prepare wordlist 

Using pre-made list `rockyou-30000.rule` with `rockyou.txt`

Cracking the KeePass database hash

`hashcat -m 13400 keepass.hash /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt -r /usr/share/hashcat/rules/rockyou-30000.rule --force`

Result:

````
$keepass$*2*60*0*d74e29a727e9338717d27a7d457ba3486d20dec73a9db1a7fbc7a068c9aec6bd*04b0bfd787898d8dcd4d463ee768e55337ff001ddfac98c961219d942fb0cfba*5273cc73b9584fbd843d1ee309d2ba47*1dcad0a3e50f684510c5ab14e1eecbb63671acae14a77eff9aa319b63d71ddb9*17c3ebc9c4c3535689cb9cb501284203b7c66b0ae2fbf0c2763ee920277496c1:qwertyuiop123!
````

#### SSH Private Key Passphrase

Scenario:
Assume initial access to web server and discover a `note.txt` and `id_rsa` file.

Contents of note:

```
Dave's password list:

Window
rickc137
dave
superdave
megadave
umbrella

Note to myself:
New password policy starting in January 2022. Passwords need 3 numbers, a capital letter and a special character
```

Change permissions of ssh key

`chmod 600 id_rsa`

SSH'ing with found private key and attempting to guess the passphrase using found wordlist.

`ssh -i id_rsa -p 2222 dave@192.168.50.201`

None of the passwords from the note.txt worked.

Transforming ssh key to a hash to be cracked.

`ssh2john id_rsa > ssh.hash`

Result:

````
id_rsa:$sshng$6$16$7059e78a8d3764ea1e883fcdf592feb7$1894$6f70656e7373682d6b65792d7631000000000a6165733235362d6374720000000662637279707400000018000000107059e78a8d3764ea1e883fcdf592feb7000000100000000100000197000000077373682...
````

`$6$` in the output indicates SHA-512
Remove filename before the colon.

Find hashcat mode to use

`hashcat -h | grep -i "ssh"`

````
  22921 | RSA/DSA/EC/OpenSSH Private Keys ($6$)               | Private Key
````

Mode: 22921

Creating rule with criteria found in the note:
- three numbers (using three numbers from a previous password: 1,3,7)
- capital letter  (capitalize first letter)
- special character (use ! @ #)

Contents of the ssh.rule rules file

```
c $1 $3 $7 $!
c $1 $3 $7 $@
c $1 $3 $7 $#
```

Contents of the ssh.passwords wordlist

```
Window
rickc137
dave
superdave
megadave
umbrella
```

Starting up #hashcat 

`hashcat -m 22921 ssh.hash ssh.passwords -r ssh.rule --force`

Received this error:

```
Hashfile 'ssh.hash' on line 1 ($sshng...cfeadfb412288b183df308632$16$486): Token length exception
```

We learn that this key is actually an _aes-256-ctr_ cipher which hashcat does not support. 

#johntheripper can handle this key though.

We need to add a name to the rule and append them to `/etc/john/john.conf`

```
[List.Rules:sshRules]
c $1 $3 $7 $!
c $1 $3 $7 $@
c $1 $3 $7 $#
```

`sudo sh -c 'cat /home/kali/passwordattacks/ssh.rule >> /etc/john/john.conf'`

Cracking the hash with #johntheripper 

`john --wordlist=ssh.passwords --rules=sshRules ssh.hash`

Passphrase is: `Umbrella137!`

##### LABS

2. Enumerate VM #2 and find a way to get access to SSH on port 2222. Find the flag of the user you used for the SSH connection. You can use the same rules we created in this section.






